# Multi-label-Incremental-Learning-for-State-Prediction-of-Actuator-Devices-in-Smart-Homes


## 🧠 Abstract

The main aspects considered in smart homes (SHs) include activity classification, routine prediction, energy consumption reduction, and actuator-state prediction. SHs require highly responsive  behavior whenever state changes are detected. In this context, the key factors are both the response time and the quality of state prediction. However, many current approaches rely on deep learning models that demand substantial computational power and often require architectural changes whenever new device attributes are introduced. Moreover, the literature has predominantly focused on human-activity prediction rather than device-state prediction. In this work, we focus on actuator-state prediction and propose a flexible solution based on incremental learning, dynamic time windows, and data streaming, designed to accommodate frequent changes in user and device data structures independently of the underlying activity-recognition method. Using four datasets, one from CASAS, two generated by simulation, and one collected from a volunteer’s SH, we evaluated the models in terms of Micro-F1 and per-instance inference time. The results show that, even in the most complex scenario, inference latencies for all algorithms remain in the millisecond range, making them practically negligible for real-time smart-home operation. Regarding predictive performance, adaptive random forest (ARF), k-nearest neighbors classifier (KNN), and extremely fast decision tree (EFDT) achieved the highest Micro-F1 scores across the different configurations, with ARF and EFDT offering an especially favorable balance between accuracy and responsiveness for deployment in real-world SH environments

## 🎯 Quick Start

| Folder             | Function                                                                  |
|--------------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `experiment`       | main folder containing the code and training datasets                     |
| `experiment/dados` | datasets used for the experiment                                        |
| `experiment/modelo_treinado` | folder where the experiment results, tables, and images are stored.|
| `notebooks`        | folder containing auxiliary scripts used for debugging and plotting data. |
| `pyproject.toml`   | This file declares the python project, dependencies, and configurations   |

### Downloading dependencies
```bash
poetry install
```

### How to run

After all dependencies have been installed, use `poetry` to run the project:

```bash
cd experiment
poetry run python ./exec_experimento.py
```


## ⚖️ Licensing

The source code in this repository is licensed under the **Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License (CC BY-NC-SA 4.0)**.

This means you are free to:
* Share (copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format).
* Adapt (remix, transform, and build upon the material).

Under the following conditions:
* **Attribution (BY):** You must give appropriate credit, provide a link to the license, and indicate if changes were made.
* **NonCommercial (NC):** You **may not** use the material for commercial purposes.
* **ShareAlike (SA):** If you remix, transform, or build upon the material, you must distribute your contributions under the **same license**.

For the full legal text, please refer to the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file in this repository.


## 🏷️ Citations (In progress)

🚧 🚧 🚧 🚧


if you find the code or data is useful, please cite our work:

@article{xxxxxx, ****
  title={Multi-label Incremental Learning for State Prediction of Actuator Devices in Smart Homes}, <br>
  author={xxx, xxxx, xxxxx, and xxxx}, <br>
  journal={xxxxxx}, <br>
  year={xxxx}, <br>
  publisher={xxxxxxxx} <br>
}


🚧 🚧 🚧 🚧